DEPLOY.md, before:

# Magento AWS Deployment Guide

This guide outlines the steps to deploy Magento 2.4.7-p3 on AWS from scratch using Terraform and Ansible.

## 🚀 Quick Start (Automated Workflow)

### 1. Pre-deployment Setup
Ensure your AWS CLI is configured and you have the required SSH key:
```bash
aws configure  # Configure your access keys and region (eu-west-1)
# Ensure your private key is at /root/.ssh/ansible_key
```

### 2. Infrastructure (Terraform)
Launch the AWS infrastructure. This step will also **automatically generate** the Ansible variables.
```bash
cd terraform/envs/dev
terraform init
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

### 3. Application (Ansible)
Provision the servers and install Magento. The inventory is dynamic, and variables are pre-filled by Terraform.
```bash
cd ../../../ansible
# Verify connectivity
ansible all -m ping
# Run the installation
ansible-playbook -i inventory/aws_ec2.yml playbooks/install_magento.yml
```

---

## 🛠️ What's Automated?

We have significantly simplified the process by automating several manual tasks:

| Feature | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Variable Sync** | Terraform automatically writes `magento_db_host`, `magento_redis_host`, and `magento_opensearch_host` to `ansible/inventory/group_vars/all.yml`. |
| **MySQL Setup** | The Ansible playbook now automatically grants the required privileges to the database user on RDS. |
| **PHP 8.2 Patching** | A core patch is applied automatically to fix Magento's incompatibility with PHP 8.2 deprecation notices. |
| **System Tuning** | PHP `memory_limit`, Apache Vhosts, and system packages are configured without manual intervention. |
| **Swap Config**   | A 4GB swap file is automatically provisioned for deployment stability. |

---

## 🔗 Access Details
Once deployed, the site is accessible via the Load Balancer DNS name:
*   **Frontend**: `http://<alb-dns-name>/`
*   **Admin Mode**: The deployment uses **Production Mode** for maximum stability and speed.

## ⚠️ Maintenance & Troubleshooting
*   **Logs**: Check `/var/www/html/magento/var/log/` on any instance for application logs.
*   **Re-deploy**: If you change Terraform variables (like RDS password), re-run `terraform apply` and then `ansible-playbook` to sync changes.

Commit message:

Update .gitignore and deployment instructions
Added new paths to .gitignore to exclude resources and documentation files. Enhanced DEPLOY.md with SSH key generation and configuration steps, and clarified the deployment process by renumbering and expanding instructions.

DEPLOY.md, after:

# Magento AWS Deployment Guide

This guide outlines the steps to deploy Magento 2.4.7-p3 on AWS from scratch using Terraform and Ansible.

## 🚀 Quick Start (Automated Workflow)

### 1. Pre-deployment Setup
Ensure your AWS CLI is configured and you have the required SSH key:
```bash
aws configure  # Configure your access keys and region (eu-west-1)
# Ensure your private key is at /root/.ssh/ansible_key
```

### 2. Configure SSH Key
Create a new SSH key and update the compute module to allow Ansible access.
1. Generate the key:
   ```bash
   ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -f ~/.ssh/ansible_key
   ```
2. Update `terraform/modules/compute/main.tf`:
   - Copy the content of the public key: `cat ~/.ssh/ansible_key.pub`
   - Open `terraform/modules/compute/main.tf`.
   - Replace the hardcoded public key in the `user_data` script (Search for `echo "ssh-ed25519 ...`) with your new public key.

### 3. Infrastructure (Terraform)
Launch the AWS infrastructure. This step will also **automatically generate** the Ansible variables.
```bash
cd terraform/envs/dev
terraform init
terraform apply -auto-approve
```

### 4. Application (Ansible)
Provision the servers and install Magento. The inventory is dynamic, and variables are pre-filled by Terraform.
```bash
cd ../../../ansible
# Verify connectivity
ansible all -m ping
# Run the installation
ansible-playbook -i inventory/aws_ec2.yml playbooks/install_magento.yml
```

---

## 🛠️ What's Automated?

We have significantly simplified the process by automating several manual tasks:

| Feature | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| **Variable Sync** | Terraform automatically writes `magento_db_host`, `magento_redis_host`, and `magento_opensearch_host` to `ansible/inventory/group_vars/all.yml`. |
| **MySQL Setup** | The Ansible playbook now automatically grants the required privileges to the database user on RDS. |
| **PHP 8.2 Patching** | A core patch is applied automatically to fix Magento's incompatibility with PHP 8.2 deprecation notices. |
| **System Tuning** | PHP `memory_limit`, Apache Vhosts, and system packages are configured without manual intervention. |
| **Swap Config**   | A 4GB swap file is automatically provisioned for deployment stability. |

---

## 🔗 Access Details
Once deployed, the site is accessible via the Load Balancer DNS name:
*   **Frontend**: `http://<alb-dns-name>/`
*   **Admin Mode**: The deployment uses **Production Mode** for maximum stability and speed.

## ⚠️ Maintenance & Troubleshooting
*   **Logs**: Check `/var/www/html/magento/var/log/` on any instance for application logs.
*   **Re-deploy**: If you change Terraform variables (like RDS password), re-run `terraform apply` and then `ansible-playbook` to sync changes.
